README.md, before:

# Imp: 😈 Eth2 Network Agent 😈

**Imp** is a semi-autonomous network agent designed to crawl the eth2 network an collect data that will be used to monitor the network health in realtime.

## Demo

Here's a screencap of two imp agents peered and communicating with a [Lighthouse](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse) node / validator pair:

![imp](https://github.com/prrkl/docs/blob/master/resources/imphouse.gif)

## Docs

For more information on prkl click [here](https://github.com/prrkl/docs/blob/master/README.md)

## Prereqs ( MacOS )

Rust:

Install rustup so you can switch between Rust versions:

```sh

> brew install rustup

```

Install the Rust compiler and package manager:

```sh

> rustup-init

```

Tmux (Optional):

Installing this will make running the demo easier:

```sh

> brew install tmux

```

## How to Build

Clone the repo:

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/prrkl/imp.git

```

For convenience, a Makefile is provided to alias the different build options with the following targets:

### debug

This build target is for developers and used (obviously) for debugging.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make debug`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build`

### release

If you just want to run **imp**, then use this target.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make release`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build --release`

### local

This is an option for developers.  It is a convenient was to reference packages, like [mothra](https://github.com/prrkl/mothra), that are being developed along with **imp**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make local`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build --features "local" --no-default-features`

## How to run

There are two modes of operation:

### crawler

This mode will have imp crawl the DHT of an eth2 testnet and print out the nodes found.  Try out one of the crawler scripts to see how it works:

```
> cd scripts && sh crawl-topaz.sh
```

### agent

This mode is designed to have imp impersonate an eth2 node and listen to gossip messages on the network. Try the following script to learn more:

```
> cd scripts && sh connect-imp-topaz.sh
```

### cli options:

**imp args:**

```
imp 0.1.0
Jonny Rhea
Eth2 Network Agent

USAGE:
    imp [OPTIONS] [SUBCOMMAND]

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --debug-level <LEVEL>
            Log filter. [default: info]  [possible values: info, debug, trace, warn, error, crit]

        --p2p-protocol-version <P2P_PROTOCOL_VERSION>    P2P protocol version to advertise. [default: imp/libp2p]
        --testnet-dir <DIR>                              The location of the testnet directory to use.

SUBCOMMANDS:
    crawler    ETH2 network crawler.
    help       Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
    mothra     P2P networking component.
```

**imp crawler args:**

```
> imp crawler -h
imp-crawler 0.1.0
ETH2 network crawler.

USAGE:
    imp crawler [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --boot-nodes <ENR-LIST>       One or more comma-delimited base64-encoded ENR's to bootstrap the p2p network.
        --listen-address <ADDRESS>    The address the client will listen for UDP and TCP connections. [default:
                                      127.0.0.1]
        --port <PORT>                 The TCP/UDP port to listen on. [default: 9000]
```

**imp mothra args:**

```
> imp mothra -h
imp-mothra 0.1.0
P2P networking component.

USAGE:
    imp mothra [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
    -a, --auto-ports                 Allow the OS to select from available TCP/UDP ports.
    -d, --disable-enr-auto-update    This fixes the ENR's IP/PORT to whatever is specified at startup.
    -h, --help                       Prints help information
    -V, --version                    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --boot-nodes <ENR-LIST>           One or more comma-delimited base64-encoded ENR's to bootstrap the p2p network.
        --datadir <DIR>                   The location of the data directory to use.
        --debug-level <LEVEL>             Log filter. [default: info]  [possible values: info, debug, trace, warn,
                                          error, crit]
        --discovery-port <PORT>           The discovery UDP port.
        --libp2p-addresses <MULTIADDR>    One or more comma-delimited multiaddrs to manually connect to a libp2p peer
                                          without an ENR.
        --listen-address <ADDRESS>        The address the client will listen for UDP and TCP connections. [default:
                                          127.0.0.1]
        --maxpeers <maxpeers>             The maximum number of peers. [default: 50]
        --port <PORT>                     The TCP/UDP port to listen on. [default: 9000]
        --topics <STRING>                 One or more comma-delimited gossipsub topics to subscribe to.

```

Commit message:

updated README.md with instructions on how to use crawl-network.sh and imp crawler options

README.md, after:

# Imp: 😈 Eth2 Network Agent 😈

**Imp** is a semi-autonomous network agent designed to crawl the eth2 network an collect data that will be used to monitor the network health in realtime.

## Demo

Here's a screencap of two imp agents peered and communicating with a [Lighthouse](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse) node / validator pair:

![imp](https://github.com/prrkl/docs/blob/master/resources/imphouse.gif)

## Docs

For more information on prkl click [here](https://github.com/prrkl/docs/blob/master/README.md)

## Prereqs ( MacOS )

Rust:

Install rustup so you can switch between Rust versions:

```sh

> brew install rustup

```

Install the Rust compiler and package manager:

```sh

> rustup-init

```

Tmux (Optional):

Installing this will make running the demo easier:

```sh

> brew install tmux

```

## How to Build

Clone the repo:

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/prrkl/imp.git

```

For convenience, a Makefile is provided to alias the different build options with the following targets:

### debug

This build target is for developers and used (obviously) for debugging.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make debug`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build`

### release

If you just want to run **imp**, then use this target.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make release`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build --release`

### local

This is an option for developers.  It is a convenient was to reference packages, like [mothra](https://github.com/prrkl/mothra), that are being developed along with **imp**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;command: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`make local`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;equivalent to: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`cargo build --features "local" --no-default-features`

## How to run

There are two modes of operation:

### crawler

This mode will have imp crawl the DHT of an eth2 testnet and output info to a csv

```
> cd scripts && sh crawl-network.sh schlesi|topaz num_crawlers
```

### agent

This mode is designed to have imp impersonate an eth2 node and listen to gossip messages on the network. Try the following script to learn more:

```
> cd scripts && sh connect-imp-topaz.sh
```

### cli options:

**imp args:**

```
imp 0.1.0
Jonny Rhea
Eth2 Network Agent

USAGE:
    imp [OPTIONS] [SUBCOMMAND]

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --debug-level <LEVEL>
            Log filter. [default: info]  [possible values: info, debug, trace, warn, error, crit]

        --p2p-protocol-version <P2P_PROTOCOL_VERSION>    P2P protocol version to advertise. [default: imp/libp2p]
        --testnet-dir <DIR>                              The location of the testnet directory to use.

SUBCOMMANDS:
    crawler    ETH2 network crawler.
    help       Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
    mothra     P2P networking component.
```

**imp crawler args:**

```
> imp crawler -h
imp-crawler 0.1.0
ETH2 network crawler.

USAGE:
    imp crawler [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --boot-nodes <ENR-LIST>       One or more comma-delimited base64-encoded ENR's to bootstrap the p2p network.
        --datadir <DIR>               The location of the data directory to use.
        --listen-address <ADDRESS>    The address the client will listen for UDP and TCP connections. [default:
                                      127.0.0.1]
        --port <PORT>                 The TCP/UDP port to listen on. [default: 9000]
```

**imp mothra args:**

```
> imp mothra -h
imp-mothra 0.1.0
P2P networking component.

USAGE:
    imp mothra [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
    -a, --auto-ports                 Allow the OS to select from available TCP/UDP ports.
    -d, --disable-enr-auto-update    This fixes the ENR's IP/PORT to whatever is specified at startup.
    -h, --help                       Prints help information
    -V, --version                    Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --boot-nodes <ENR-LIST>           One or more comma-delimited base64-encoded ENR's to bootstrap the p2p network.
        --datadir <DIR>                   The location of the data directory to use.
        --debug-level <LEVEL>             Log filter. [default: info]  [possible values: info, debug, trace, warn,
                                          error, crit]
        --discovery-port <PORT>           The discovery UDP port.
        --libp2p-addresses <MULTIADDR>    One or more comma-delimited multiaddrs to manually connect to a libp2p peer
                                          without an ENR.
        --listen-address <ADDRESS>        The address the client will listen for UDP and TCP connections. [default:
                                          127.0.0.1]
        --maxpeers <maxpeers>             The maximum number of peers. [default: 50]
        --port <PORT>                     The TCP/UDP port to listen on. [default: 9000]
        --topics <STRING>                 One or more comma-delimited gossipsub topics to subscribe to.

```
